AdvertisementSupported byLeMahieu got a six-year contract that lets the Yankees avoid the luxury tax — for now. The team also agreed to a deal with Corey Kluber, an ace starter undone by injuries the past two seasons.By James WagnerWhen the Yankees signed D.J. LeMahieu to a two-year $24 million deal before the 2019 season, some people in baseball were puzzled. How would the Gold Glove-winning second baseman fit among their glut of infielders?That question was answered quickly. LeMahieu promptly established himself as an indispensable Yankee — eventually emerging as the team’s best all-around player in consecutive playoff runs — and a remarkable free-agent bargain.In order to keep LeMahieu in pinstripes after the expiration of that contract, the Yankees agreed on Friday to sign him to an even bigger new deal. But in a nod to baseball’s current economic landscape, the deal — set to be for six years and $90 million — was structured to protect the team from luxury tax penalties.LeMahieu’s new contract figures were confirmed by two people familiar with the negotiations who weren’t authorized to speak publicly because it was not official yet. One person said the deal’s final hurdle was having LeMahieu undergo a physical examination.The Yankees’ shopping spree continued into Friday night, when they agreed to a deal, pending a physical examination, with Corey Kluber, 34, a two-time American League Cy Young Award winner. The contract, reportedly worth roughly $11 million over one year, will give the Yankees a pitcher who has been injured over the past two seasons. But Kluber, a right-hander, can bring valuable experience to a starting rotation that, aside from the ace Gerrit Cole, was largely unproven (Deivi Garcia and Jordan Montgomery) or returning from injury (Luis Severino).Despite some competition from rival teams, the LeMahieu-Yankees reunion was anticipated. The Yankees, a World Series contender in 2021, have repeatedly praised LeMahieu’s impact on the team over the past two years. Even as baseball’s hot stove has been anything but this winter, Yankees General Manager Brian Cashman reiterated in December that the team’s top priority was re-signing LeMahieu, 32. He said the team would wait as long as needed.That lack of urgency was reasonable because LeMahieu — also coveted by the Toronto Blue Jays, the Los Angeles Dodgers and the Mets, among other teams — did not want to go anywhere else. Quiet and competitive, he has said often how much he loves playing for a contending team, at Yankee Stadium and in New York.“I want to stay here and I’ve said that a few times,” he said in September.LeMahieu, a second baseman who can also play at first or third, has shined for the Yankees at the plate and in the field since he came to New York from the Colorado Rockies. He swiftly and emphatically dispelled the notion that the hitter-friendly thinner air of Denver was a major factor behind his past success.In 2019, LeMahieu hit .327 with 26 home runs and 102 runs batted in, finishing fourth in voting for American League Most Valuable Player Award. In last year’s truncated 60-game season, he won his second batting title, leading the major leagues with a .364 average, and finished third in the A.L. M.V.P. voting. He was the catalyst of the Yankees’ offense, a consistent contact hitter in a lineup of sluggers who learned to better harness the power of his swing.“D.J. is the freaking best hitter I’ve ever played with,” his teammate Luke Voit said in September.Another teammate, Gary Sanchez, gave LeMahieu a nickname: The Machine.And on a podcast this December, Bo Bichette, a young shortstop for the Blue Jays, said, “I think D.J. LeMahieu is the best hitter in baseball, and I don’t even really think it’s close, from what I’ve seen.”Although LeMahieu will turn 33 in July, the Yankees are poised to hand him a deal longer than originally expected. After blowing past several luxury tax thresholds last winter to sign Cole to a record nine-year, $324 million contract, the Yankees wanted to stay under the mark going forward.The coronavirus pandemic added significant murkiness to teams’ financial outlooks. Hal Steinbrenner, the Yankees’ managing general partner, said in October that his team sustained the most significant financial losses of any M.L.B. team in the pandemic-affected 2020 season. The players’ union has questioned some of the financial losses claims by M.L.B. and its teams.The luxury tax threshold for the 2021 season will be $210 million. Including the expected salaries of LeMahieu and Kluber, the Yankees’ projected payroll for luxury tax purposes sat at $200 million, according to Cot’s Baseball.Spreading LeMahieu’s salary over six years gave the team more wiggle room to upgrade the roster, particularly on the mound.From 2014 to 2018, Kluber was one of the best pitchers in baseball. But since then, because of a series of injuries he sustained with the Cleveland Indians and Texas Rangers, he has logged only 36⅔ innings.