AdvertisementSupported byJared Porter reportedly sent dozens of lewd text messages — including one with a nude photo — to a female reporter in 2016.By David Waldstein and Kevin DraperSandy Alderson expressed shock and anger on Tuesday over the behavior of Jared Porter, the Mets’ recently hired general manager, and outlined why he and owner Steven A. Cohen had terminated Porter that morning.The firing came hours after the Mets discovered that Porter had sent lewd texts to a female reporter four and a half years ago.“Those are the kinds of things that this organization and many others find abhorrent and not tolerable in any shape or form,” Alderson said on a video conference call with reporters. “We responded, I think, as quickly as we possibly could, given the fact that we need to sort out the facts and deliberate on this.”The Mets acted after ESPN reported on Monday night that Porter had sent more than 60 unsolicited text messages and photos, including one of a penis, to a female baseball reporter in June 2016. The decision to fire Porter was announced on Cohen’s Twitter account, and it came just over a month after the Mets had hired Porter to help rebuild the team.“We have terminated Jared Porter this morning,” Cohen tweeted at 7:55 a.m. “In my initial press conference I spoke about the importance of integrity and I meant it. There should be zero tolerance for this type of behavior.”Porter did not immediately respond to a request for comment, but he acknowledged to ESPN on Monday night that he had sent the messages and photographs. Alderson said if he had known what Porter had done, he would have been disqualified from consideration for the job. Alderson said he had no knowledge of the issue until Porter called him at 5:30 p.m. Monday to notify him that the ESPN article would be coming out soon.Alderson indicated that whatever Porter told him on Monday afternoon had not conveyed the full weight of what transpired with the reporter.“I don’t want to suggest that Jared was not totally forthcoming,” Alderson said. “On the other hand, the full breadth of the situation was not really apparent to us until the article was written and we had a chance to read it.”After learning all the facts, Alderson said he was shocked. “Eventually,” he added, “that gives way to disappointment and a little bit of anger.”According to the report, Porter and the woman met just once, at Yankee Stadium, when he was the director of professional scouting for the Chicago Cubs. The woman, who was not named in the report, told ESPN that she believed she was beginning a standard reporter-source relationship with Porter, but that Porter’s tone quickly became unprofessional. Her attempts to ignore the messages did not discourage him, the ESPN article said, and multiple messages included images that were sexual in nature.The messages — which ESPN said it obtained in 2017 but did not promptly reveal because the woman feared reprisals from Porter or her employer at the time — stopped only when the woman, who reportedly is not from the United States and does not speak English fluently, showed them to an interpreter and a player from her country, according to ESPN.The interpreter and the player, according to ESPN, helped the reporter write a response to Porter: “This is extremely inappropriate, very offensive, and getting out of line. Could you please stop sending offensive photos or msg.”The Cubs and Major League Baseball said they would conduct investigations into Porter’s conduct. The actions of the interpreter, who was not named in the ESPN article, are also expected to be examined.After the reporter asked him to stop, Porter, 41, sent her a few apologies and then stopped texting her, the report said. On Monday he told ESPN that the explicit photographs were not of him but “kinda like joke-stock images.” He declined to comment further.Alderson, who named the reporter’s home country even though that information was purposefully withheld from ESPN’s report, said there was no indication of other similar behavior by Porter and added that it would have been difficult for the Mets or anyone else to have known about the harassment through the normal pre-hire screening. He indicated that in the future the Mets might pursue a more aggressive vetting process used by the F.B.I.“What this situation suggests is that we need to rethink what constitutes well vetted,” he said.During their hunt for a general manager, Alderson said, he received virtually unanimous, glowing recommendations about Porter from his colleagues and acquaintances dating back to his college days, but acknowledged that none of them were women.“That is one of the unfortunate circumstances that exists in the game today,” Alderson said. “There aren’t women in those positions, with whom one can have a conversation and develop information or check references.”The Mets hired Porter last month to help Alderson revamp the organization and assist in choosing players for what the franchise hopes will be a championship drive. The Mets have made the playoffs just twice in the past decade, but optimism about the future has been high since Cohen, a billionaire with bold plans for the team, purchased the club at the end of last season.Before that transaction was completed, Major League Baseball conducted a mandatory vetting process, including an investigation into accusations of sexual harassment by three women at Point72 Asset Management, Cohen’s hedge fund company. Owners later voted to approve his purchase for over $2 billion.Last month, The New York Times reported details of a harassment claim filed against Cohen last summer. The complaint, filed by a former employee, did not include accusations of sexual harassment, but it described Cohen as having a volatile temper and the hedge fund company’s culture as openly sexist and hostile, according to some women.Alderson said on Tuesday that when Cohen brought him back to the Mets’ front office after an absence of about two and a half years, he told the new owner that he would emphasize a culture of integrity, ethical behavior and moral courage. Alderson said that Cohen had wholeheartedly encouraged him to pursue that kind of environment.“Was that informed by situations that arose at Point72? I can’t answer that question,” Alderson said. “But I can tell you that he’s totally committed to this approach with the Mets, and I think our decision this morning reflects that.”Porter had most recently served as senior vice president and assistant general manager of the Arizona Diamondbacks. He was a front office member of four World Series championship teams — three with the Boston Red Sox and one with the Cubs in 2016, when he was Chicago’s director of pro scouting and a special assistant.He began his career with the Red Sox as an intern, ascending over 12 years to become the team’s director of pro scouting from 2012 to 2015, before he left to join the Cubs. He is known as a collaborator with an eye for talent and a comprehension of data-based modeling for player acquisition and on-field play.